Variance in fitness:

The variance in fitness within the population is a strikingly accurate predictor for p=p0 in the interference selection regime (circles), but it is a poor predictor in the background selection regime (triangles).

Yet the most striking feature of these distortions is not simply that they exist, but rather that they are extremely well-predicted by the reduction in pairwise diversity in these populations — which is itself well-predicted by the variance in fitness. This strong correlation is a nontrivial feature of interference selection, and it disappears for the populations that were classified into the background selection regime


selction coeficients:
Our simulations suggest that in the interference selection regime, two asexual populations with the same variance in fitness will display nearly identical patterns of silent site variability, regardless of the fitness effects of the nonsynonymous mutations.


(R = 0), which leads to a key simplification: different genotypes with the same fitness are completely equivalent, both in terms of their reproductive capacity and their potential for future mutations. The evolutionary dynamics are completely determined by the proportion, f(X), of individuals in each fitness class X.

Note that because of the pervasive interference between selected mutations, s2 is typically much smaller than the deterministic prediction from Eq. (1), s2det~Us, and for large Ns it grows less than linearly with the number of loci under selection.

In this N*var limit, silent site diversity decays as p=p0 prop to 1=N*var, while the shape of the site-frequency spectrum, Qn(i), becomes independent of all underlying parameters. This means that mean selection coefficient doesn't matter.


Here, we have shown that simple behavior emerges in the limit of widespread interference. When fitness variation is composed of many individual mutations, the magnitudes and signs of their fitness effects are relatively unimportant. Instead, molecular evolution is controlled by the variance in fitness within the population over some effectively asexual segment of the genome


By using the term interference selection, we have tried to emphasize that interference (i.e., correlations in the frequencies of selected alleles) is the distinguishing feature that separates these populations from the traditional background selection regime.


Don't believe NeS from DFE alpha
Many estimates of "Nes" ignore linkage by fiat under the assumption that sites evolve independently. But these estimates become unreliable precisely when small- and intermediate-effect mutations are most common

At best, these estimates of ‘‘Nes’’ represent measurements of T2s [pairwise coalescence time for the linkage block], which carry little information about the true strength of selection (Ns) or even the potential severity of interference.  In other words, we cannot conclude that interference is negligible just because "Nes", as inferred from data, is larger than one.

Earlier, we showed that the reduction in silent site diversity on this chromosome (p=p0*7%) is consistent with the parameters Ns<30, NU<300, and NR<0, which fall in the middle of the interference selection regime


Individual fitness effects may play a central role in single-site models, but we have shown that global properties like the variance in fitness and the corresponding linkage scale are more relevant for predicting evolution in interfering populations.


Finally, our findings suggest a qualitative shift in the interpre- tations gleaned from previous empirical studies. We have provided further evidence that even weak purifying selection, when aggregated over a sufficiently large number of sites, can generate strong deviations from neutrality.